--
[0004] On blind date, don't feel guilty if the eyes say 'nay'/Carolyn Hax/The Washington Post/20170329
#0004/1821/327

Hi, Carolyn: This weekend, I am set to meet my first blind date - someone I met on one of those online dating sites. The man in question has been lovely to email and chat with on the phone - we get along quite well. I'm worried that, when I meet him in person, something about him physically will totally turn me off. I'm afraid I'm going to find out that I'm shallow or superficial. I know people don't always "click," but I guess I'm more afraid to find out that I've got this character flaw that I've never realized.

Baltimore: I'm as fond of self-flagellation as the next person, especially when that self isn't me, but I think you've made a great case for a cease-flog. Wow.

Judging him in person isn't shallow, it's smart; mating is emotional, intellectual and physical. Somehow our intellect has become the only politically correct arbiter of a good mate, but that denies the value of sensory judgment. We bypass the nose at our peril.

Every part of you that's going to be engaged in your relationship should have equal say in, and veto power over, a potential partner. That includes eyes, wits, gut. When the eyes say no, say no.

You can always give your eyes extra time, in the interest of depth. Never, ever overrule the gut, but bodies have been known to grow more attractive when you come to love what's inside.

You can put a noble face on judging a jaw line by telling yourself that people deserve to be loved as a whole. They do. And you deserve not to shudder through hugs.

Besides, given the way reality tends to get the last word, especially in relationships, you might as well be realistic. Even if you're living birdbath and want only buff, bronze and blond, you're better off admitting that and cruising lifeguards accordingly than forcing yourself to be deep. Resolve is like beauty - it fades.

https://www.washingtonpost.com/lifestyle/style/carolyn-hax-on-blind-date-dont-feel-guilty-if-the-eyes-say-nay/2017/03/28/17443786-10de-11e7-9b0d-d27c98455440_story.html?utm_term=.e2379dc32538


