--
[0008] Stuck Between A Rock and Several Responsibilities/Marcy Sugar/20170404
#0008/1959/354

Dear Annie: I'm writing this from a friend's computer so my wife won't find out. "Lizzie" and I are in our late 20s. She has an older sister and two adopted siblings, both of whom are developmentally disabled. One has Down syndrome, but he is capable of living independently. The other, however, is the size of a grown woman, but she can neither walk nor speak. She must be cared for like an infant.

When we married, Lizzie told me that someday her adoptive siblings would live an a group home. Now that her mother is in poor health, she says she intends to have both of them live with us.

Lizzie's biological sister is married with kids and acts as if her adoptive siblings don't exist. I asked my sister-in-law if she and her husband would take in the developmentally disabled sister, and she said no. When I asked why she was so cold toward her adoptive siblings, she said, "They were my parent's project, not mine."

So now I'm stuck. I want kids of our own, but it will be impossible to care for an infant and a "grown infant" at the same time, and even Lizzie agrees. And if we place the siblings in a home, we'll still have to help pay for it, and her parents didn't provide much. There's no way we could afford it.

I love my wife, but there are some things I am not willing to do. A therapist told me I have to decide for myself. Please help. - Need Another Opinion.

Dear Need: This is an enormous responsibility, and we understand it's not what you signed up for. Before rejecting both the obligation and your marriage, however, please do some research. The siblings may be eligible for government assistance. Your sister-in-law may be willing to contribute financially to their care. Also, please check online or call 211 to find local support groups for caregivers of those with developmental disabilities and see what resources exist in your area. Armed with good information, you can then discuss it honestly and compassionately with Lizzie.

https://www.creators.com/read/annies-mailbox/04/17/stuck-between-a-rock-and-several-responsibilities