--
[0019] Curious About Death and Dog Naming/Catherine Pearlman/20170414
#0019/1925/340

Dear Family Coach: Lately, my 8-year-old son has been begging me to take him to a cemetery. He seems very curious about death, and I'm both uncomfortable and confused. We never talk about death or watch movies about death, yet it's on his mind. I can't imagine ushering him through a cemetery. What should I do? - R.I.Parent

Dear R.I.P.: Walking through a cemetery is an incredible experience, especially when you aren't there to bury someone. When people choose to be buried, I'm guessing they are hoping that someone will go there to visit their graves. It seems like a mitzvah (a good deed) to head there for the sole purpose of honoring those who rest there.

Your son's interest in death is normal and healthy. I'm more worried about you. What are you afraid of, and what are your fears about death? Before talking to your son further about death and thinking about visiting the cemetery, you should dig deep about why you are so fearful. If you have had some trauma or early painful experiences about death, then I would enlist the help of a therapist. The more you pretend that death doesn't exist, the more curious and, quite frankly, fearful your son will become. Don't do that to him.

Once you become comfortable with the idea of mortality, it might be interesting to learn about how various cultures handle death and burial. Do some research together on the internet. Then, with some knowledge about customs, head over to a nearby cemetery. Take a walk. Read the names. Calculate the age of death. Notice religious symbols or interesting headstones. Talk to your son about what it was like to lose a family member and what your preferences are for when you pass on. Preventing discussions about death doesn't make death avoidable. It just makes kids unprepared for all that happens after. Use this as a beginning for your both to explore death on a deeper level. You will better off for it, and so will your son.

https://www.creators.com/read/the-family-coach/04/17/curious-about-death-and-dog-naming